---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "stephenNov23rd.jpg"
title: "Stephen Baldwin Aims to Bridge America's GAP in New Television Show"
original-author: Stephen Baldwin
original-link: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/stephen-baldwin-aims-to-bridge-americas-gap-in-new-television-show-300560490.html
---
NEW YORK, Nov. 22, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Actor and producer **Stephen Baldwin** is hitting the road with his friend **Max Keiser** in a new series on RT, a global TV news network, called **"Great American Pilgrimage...The GAP."**

The series, which premieres on November 26, follows the duo on an RV journey across the United States to learn and examine what people believe, perceive and how they define living in America in the wake of its most controversial presidential election.


"Follow Stephen Baldwin and Max Keiser on an RV journey across the United States to learn and examine what people believe, perceive and how they define living in America in the wake of its most controversial presidential election. They visit everyday Americans in search of finding a grassroots commonality that can bring even the most divided together."

Follow Stephen Baldwin and Max Keiser on an RV journey across the United States to learn and examine what people believe, perceive and how they define living in America in the wake of its most controversial presidential election. They visit everyday Americans in search of finding a grassroots commonality that can bring even the most divided together.

"After the election, it became very clear to me, as it did to many people, that we are more divided as a nation than ever before, and I want to have a better understanding of how that happened; what led us to be where we are today?" said **Baldwin**. "The only way I knew we could find the answers was by going directly to the people and asking them."

The 16-episode series combines the humor of "Duck Dynasty" with the curiosity and adventure of Anthony Bourdain's"Parts Unknown" as Baldwin and Keiser visit everyday Americans in search of finding a grassroots commonality that can bring even the most divided together.

"Regardless of someone's race, beliefs or background, we can find some common ground, but we have to be willing to not just talk but also listen to each other," said Baldwin. "For me this is a pilgrimage about connecting with real people to hear their honest opinions and we are grateful to Dash Digital Cash, a pay it forward crypto currency community, for sponsoring this journey. RT News Network is becoming one of the fastest growing and most successful news and entertainment platforms. I am excited to be part of the RT team and looks forward to The GAP expanding their global footprint."

From meeting with an immigrant business owner on Venice Beach to sitting down one-on-one with Arizona Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Deedra Abboud, Baldwin gathers opinions and perspectives from every vantage point.

"I am excited to share this journey with people and provide a lighthearted perspective on the current state of our nation," said Baldwin. "When all is said and done, at the end of the day, we all want the best for our families and our country. The only way we can start to achieve that is by having an open conversation and hopefully a little fun too."

"Great American Pilgrimage...The GAP" will air weekly on the RT starting on November 26. More information on the series can be found at [RT.com](https://www.rt.com/).

###

**NOTE TO EDITORS: To arrange an interview with Stephen Baldwin, please contact Kristin Nill at 972.267.1111 or **[**knill@alarryross.com**](mailto:knill@alarryross.com)**.**

SOURCE Stephen Baldwin
