---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "2017-03-29-keekey.png"
title: "Dash now out of beta goes live on crypto hardware wallet KeepKey"
---
Just announced by hardware wallet KeepKey is the release of Dash into production [from beta, which was announced back in February](https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2017/02/02/dash-now-available-cryptocurrency-wallet-platform-keepkey/). This means Dash is now officially available as a general release to all users in the KeepKey app.

Not only will KeepKey users be able to secure their Dash, they can also take full advantage of the built-in ShapeShift functionality to exchange coins using the app. The platform offers multi-functionality whether using KeepKey to store Dash or as a platform to swap Dash with other assets.

Dash joins a growing list of cryptocurrency offerings on KeepKey, including bitcoin, litecoin, dogecoin, and ethereum. With this release, all users can now trade 20 unique currency pairs within the KeepKey app.

The KeepKey team said:

“We’d like to thank those of you who participated in the Dash beta release. Your feedback was instrumental in the final stages of development, resulting in the seamless integration that our users have come to expect. This Dash implementation is no exception. We hope you check out our next beta release, which should be available for download soon.”

Today’s release, version 4.2.10, contains the following changes:

– Dash support
– User’s API token added to the support screen
– Minor bug fixes

<https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2017/03/28/dash-now-out-of-beta-goes-live-on-crypto-hardware-wallet-keepkey/>
