---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "Bradley_Zastrow.jpg"
title: "Welcome Bradley Zastrow - Director of Global Business Development"
original-author: Ryan Taylor
original-link: https://www.dash.org/forum/threads/welcome-bradley-zastrow-director-of-global-business-development.20569/#post-153668
---

Dash community,

It is my great pleasure to announce that Dash Core Group has concluded its search for the Director of Global Business Development. Join me in welcoming [@Bradley Zastrow](https://www.dash.org/forum/members/20550/) to the team.

We conducted an extensive external search for this key position through our own contacts, inbound inquiries, and an outbound recruiter search, narrowing the candidates from literally dozens of qualified candidates. In the end, we had several highly qualified candidates to choose from, resulting in a very difficult final selection. Bradley stood out for a variety of reasons, including deep business development expertise within the payments industry, experience managing a remote global team, strong analytical skills, and a natural cultural fit.

Bradley joins Dash from American Express where he has spent the last 17+ years in a variety of partnership and finance roles across the globe. Originally from Arizona, he has spent the last 13 years in Sydney Australia where most recently he led a regional team in sourcing, negotiating, and managing strategic partnerships for the benefit of American Express Centurion and Platinum card products and customers. Brad brings tenured experience in working with global teams, managing remote people leadership as well as a strong partnership philosophy. In addition, he's also passionate about the cryptocurrency space which has seen him participate as an investor and perform ad hoc ICO due diligence/analysis.

Bradley will be based out of Sydney, but will be spending the next couple of months in Scottsdale at Dash Core Group's offices getting up to speed with the current business development pipeline. Join me in supporting Bradley in expanding our global business development team. We expect to scale up our capacity rapidly in every region to meet the increasing pace of new integrations and expand our presence in the market.

Sincerely,\
Ryan
