---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "dash-parthership_2d5377.jpg"
title: "Dash Wallet &amp; Contactless Cards With New Wirex Partnership"
original-author: DWirex Team
original-link: https://wirexapp.com/dash-wallet-integration/
---

Another week, another bombshell announcement.

Today, we’re proud to announce our new partnership with Dash.


WATCH LIVE: When Will Dash Integration Be Ready & How Will It Work On Wirex?
Yes, that’s right…the 7th largest cryptocurrency by market cap…

$54 million worth of Dash are exchanged, traded or otherwise transacted on a daily basis. With close to $2.5 Billion held within the Dash system.

They’re a serious player in the digital cash market, with a dedicated and inspiring team out to change the world for the better through viable blockchain personal finance solutions…

Sound familiar? 😉

As a long-term Wirex customer you know we continue to push through obstacles with technology, regulation, and rapid expansion.

We are very excited to be working with Dash on an important partnership for both companies.

Both teams have kick-started work on full integration of the Dash wallet inside the Wirex application.

It will take some time to complete the development so we won’t be making any promises on exact launch date just yet.

Adding Dash to Wirex will support Dash in becoming an increasingly popular everyday payment instrument around the world.

SBI Investments, who funded Wirex with $3million earlier in 2017, is working on a cryptocurrency exchange with deep roots in the Japanese economy where cryptocurrencies are recognised as legal tender. Our new legal entity and continued growth in Japan will help increase adoption of Dash throughout the fast growing Japanese customer base.

For crypto investors; we expect this partnership to support the continued rise in Dash far beyond the current $300 level.

We’re looking forward to bringing both Wirex and Dash users the benefits of a fully featured Dash wallet and contactless payment cards manageable inside your Wirex app.

Watch out for more updates on the Dash Wirex integration.


