---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "etheriumNov18th.jpg"
title: "Dash Vs Ethereum – Will 2018 See Dash Finally Decimate ETH?"
original-author: Techno Rajji
original-link: http://oracletimes.com/dash-vs-ethereum-will-2018-see-dash-finally-decimate-eth/#comment-190
---
Big things are happening in the world of Bitcoin and the cryptocurrency market in general. A trade war is coming. Some cryptos are going to be pumped and dumped and some are going to reach highs never before thought possible. What is more, it is becoming likely that the first shots exchanged in the coming cryptocurrency market wars, might well be fired between Dash Coin and Ethereum.

**The Cryptocurrency Market Will go Mainstream in 2018**

Mainstream media reporters love to raise eyebrows when discussing Bitcoin. "Oh, it's that old 'air money' again," they almost wink condescendingly through Fox, Bloomberg, and BBC camera lenses. The the only problem (for them), is that they are starting to look a little foolish.

Cumberland Mining, a Chicago and London based high volume cryptocurrency trading platform is headhunting. What is more, Cumberland is just one of several reputable tech companies and trading platforms which is head hunting right on Wall Streets very own doorstep.

The message is simple. Top trading platforms want top trading talent. What is more, they want to secure that talent now because they know that there are literally only seconds left on the clock until digital currencies and ICOs start being traded like conventional currencies and commodities.

**Mainstream Trading is Exactly What Dash Coin Has Been Waiting For**

Exploding in value in the wake of Bitcoin's recent forking controversy, Dash Coin has jumped from being traded at $288 in August, to an even more respectable $422 at the time of publication. What is truly remarkable about Dash Coin, however, is the fact that the digital currency has risen in value recently, thanks to genuine merit and technological innovation. -- Not loud PR drum beating like competing tokens such as Ethereum.

**Dash Coin Has Already Found Solutions to Real Cryptocurrency Scalability Problems **

Despite having a market cap of $32 Billion, it is safe to say that Ethereum has only secured its place as the second most successful cryptocurrency, thanks to masterful PR and paid advertising. Ethereum forked four times in 2016, specifically to counter serious Ethereum blockchain hacks and internal fraud. Fast forward to a year later, however, and Ethereum is experiencing all of the same problems all over again.

So, why is Dash Coin likely set to usurp Ethereums market cap in 2018? Well, from a security standpoint alone, the answer is simple. Dash Coin can never be hacked or have its security compromised like Ethereum. This is because Dash Coin can be sent and received completely anonymously and does not require a third party to help process transactions. What is more, Dash Coin can even rival Bitcoin in regard to the fact that unlike with Bitcoin and Ethereum, transactions can't become bottlenecked.

**Why 2018 Could Be a Perfect Storm for Ethereum**

For all intents and purposes, Dash Coin has done everything right with respect to planning for a time when the cryptocurrency market might go mainstream. Dash Coin hasn't said that it is investable. Dash Coin has proved that it is investable. Ethereum, on the other hand, seems to just laud the possible potential of its smart contract based blockchain which no one really understands, whilst only ever bring more bad news to the investment table.

The case for Dash Coin is simple. When digital currency starts to go mainstream in 2018, investors aren't going to buy frozen fund, compromised security, and transaction bottleneck excuses from the likes of Ethereum. Instead, they're going to look to put money in a cryptocurrency which has already found and executed solutions to such problems. The only question really is, when will the first shots between Dash Coin and Etherum actually start being fired?
