---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "alt36final.jpg"
title: "Alt Thirty Six Officially Announces Exclusive Dash Partnership for Integration into Retail Sector"
original-author: Joël Valenzuela  
original-link: https://www.dashforcenews.com/alt-thirty-six-officially-announces-exclusive-dash-partnership-for-integration-into-retail-sector/
---

Payment solutions provider Alt Thirty Six has officially announced its exclusive integration of Dash into its retail platform.

A digital payments provider, Alt Thirty Six aims to displace traditional payment systems by leveraging blockchain technology to avoid the limitations of using typical processors and banks, allowing the system to become feasible for new markets. Dash Core’s CEO Ryan Taylor sees the upcoming integration as valuable to increasing Dash’s attractiveness for retail payments:

“Alt Thirty Six is a tremendous asset for the Dash network, because they act as an extension of the network itself – building valuable packages of easy-to-use merchant and consumer services. They are also practical ‘problem-solvers’ that truly understand the legacy payment system’s pain points for specific retail segments. The platform they are building is adaptable to a wide range of business applications, and we believe Alt Thirty Six will constitute a great channel as we expand into new retail verticals. These are all low-margin businesses that could benefit tremendously from lower transaction costs and the ability to reach new customers.”
A key to moving Dash towards mass adoption, starting with the legal cannabis industry

The integration into Alt Thirty Six for Dash, which initially will be an exclusive partner, will uniquely position Dash as the cryptocurrency industry leader for mass adoption, according to CEO Ken Ramirez:

“Through this integration, we are focused on continuous research in payments, blockchain, and digital currency to help enhance the functionality, adoption, and simplicity of accepting digital currency. The Alt Thirty Six / Dash payment platform eliminates the need for cash-related activities for businesses by using blockchain technology and Dash currency to facilitate the transfer of funds between merchants, suppliers, vendors, and customers. Through our collaboration with Dash and many of the most innovative companies in the payments, blockchain, and digital currency sector, we are able to work towards the worldwide adoption of the Dash currency. This worldwide adoption will in turn create faster, more secure, and reduced costs around the way businesses operate.”
Ramirez sees the partnership opening up several doors to Dash, including the legal cannabis industry, which in the United States is historically underserved by traditional payment processing systems:

“We have several integrated partnerships already, but one of the most exciting is our close partnership with CannTrade, California’s premier cannabis specific B2B marketplace & CRM, which will deliver the first truly comprehensive and expedient banking and digital payment solution for the fastest growing industry in the world. Through this partnership we will improve the chances of capturing dispensaries and expanding target users beyond dispensaries and patients to now include genetics companies, cultivators, manufacturers, edible companies, brands, and distribution companies. Being able to offer the 36 + Dash platform as a solution, not only to dispensaries but to the entire cannabis business community simultaneously, is a game changer.”
An integration a long time in the making

The integration with Alt Thirty Six has been an ambitious project long in the making. This spring, the company initially approached the Dash network with a proposal for funding, which received a full-throated endorsement from the Core team. A temporary snag hit when a recent proposal’s multisignature address was rejected by the treasury and not paid out, however Core offered to step in and provide the funds while the proposal was resubmitted successfully.
