---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "1000bosses.jpg"
title: "WORKING FOR 1000+ BOSSES: EMPLOYMENT IN THE DASH DAO"
---
Some people imagine that a freelancer is her “own boss.” That she is beholden to no one but herself and that, somehow, money just rolls in.

Having worked as a waitress, an SEO blogger, a children’s party entertainer, a valet driver, a Hollywood movie extra, and over a dozen other jobs, I can testify that there is no such thing as “being your own boss.” If you’re getting paid to do something, guess what? You have a boss. The question is, just how many bosses do you have?

If you work a more traditional job, you have just one. If you are considered a “freelancer,” you have upwards of a dozen or more bosses (you probably call them “clients”). And if you work for a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) like the Dash DAO? Welcome to the land of a thousand (or more) bosses.

Every number of months – or even every month, in due time – I make an employment proposal to the Dash DAO on behalf of myself (and anyone who works under me) to produce the YouTube series DASH: Detailed. My proposal includes a precise description of the work my team will perform, as well as how much payment we seek in compensation. We may calculate our costs in US dollars or any other currency, but our request is ultimately denominated (and paid) in Dash.

Hundreds or even thousands of people around the world – it’s impossible to know quite how many – then vote “yes” or “no” on the proposal, and if 10% more “yes” votes than “no” are achieved, the payment automatically shows up in my Dash “account” within the month. So does the payment of everyone else who submits a passing proposal in that cycle. You could call it the pay day of the future.

The voters are people who lock 1000 Dash into a “masternode” (i.e. are invested) and make their masternode available to perform tasks needed to make Dash work as advertised (i.e. provide service). Each masternode then gets one vote. A person can own more than one masternode if he has made correspondingly additional investment and provides the same service on each node.

The masternode owners, then, are my bosses. Their incentives are unique in that, in a sense, they’re paying me in “shares” of their organization (digital currency is unique in that its tokens are intended as money, but also act as shares in the underlying money transfer service itself). As with the creation of any new share (or currency unit, for that matter), any newly-created tokens dilute the value of all existing tokens proportionately. In other words, creating new Dash with which to pay me is a form of inflation. Masternode owners, then, must consider whether the value my team and I will create is worth the inflation that it takes to pay us.

Thus far, masternode owners have decided that the value DASH: Detailed brings is worth the creation of new Dash for the last 10 months straight. We hope this trend continues, but as Dash grows more popular, we realize we’ll have more competition for the limited funds available each month.

That is why we’ve reached out to Pro-Creative Video Production, with studio space in both Salt Lake City, Utah and Phoenix, Arizona, to shoot a pilot episode of a more professional, network news-style DASH: Detailed. The pilot episode will be revealed in a pre-proposal I make in the coming weeks. Pro-Creative’s work is of a considerably higher caliber than what my (very) small team and I have been able to produce on our own, and their price tag reflects this (though I might add that their bid came in much lower than their competition, whom I also contacted).

So it will be up to the masternodes to decide. Will they like the pilot enough to pay for Pro-Creative to take DASH: Detailed to the next level? Or do they more prefer the price tag and quality level I’ve churned out so far?

We’ll watch as the comments begin to roll in on the pre-proposal. If they’re favorable enough, I’ll make the real employment proposal. And then the voting-of-a-thousand-bosses will begin.

<https://www.dashforcenews.com/working-for-1000-bosses-employment-in-the-dash-dao/>
