---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "alt38_15thOct.jpg"
title: "Dash for Dope – Digital Payments Platform Alt Thirty Six Selects Dash As Payment Method of Choice for New Retail Sectors"
original-author: Richard Kastelein  
original-link: http://www.the-blockchain.com/2017/10/13/dash-for-dope-digital-payments-platfo
---

Alt Thirty Six, a rising digital payments platform, has announced it will integrate the top digital currency for payments, Dash, as a method of transaction between consumers, merchants, suppliers and vendors in new retail sectors.

Arizona-based Alt Thirty Six will provide a new technology, the 36 platform, that allows industries to accept Dash as a faster and less expensive form of payment, rather than absorb significant cash handling or credit/debit card fees.

For consumers, costs of transacting in Dash at the Point of Sale and online will be at no cost, similar to their traditional payment options.

Merchants, vendors, and suppliers operating in Dash will benefit from dramatically reduced cash-handling costs and eliminate all card brand fees that amounted to $80 billion from US merchants in 2016.

CEO of Alt Thirty Six Ken Ramirez said:

“Through this integration, we are focused on continuous research in payments, blockchain, and digital currency to help enhance the functionality, adoption, and simplicity of accepting digital currency. The Alt Thirty Six / Dash payment platform eliminates the need for cash-related activities for businesses by using blockchain technology and Dash currency to facilitate the transfer of funds between merchants, suppliers, vendors, and customers. Through our collaboration with Dash and many of the most innovative companies in the payments, blockchain, and digital currency sector, we are able to work towards the worldwide adoption of the Dash currency. This worldwide adoption will in turn create faster, more secure, and reduced costs around the way businesses operate.”

Dash rapidly moved to the top of the list for businesses accepting cryptocurrency as a form of payment, primarily due to its InstantSend feature, the currency’s stability, year over year growth, and global application.

Many other digital currencies fail to provide the necessary value-added components to accept and operate efficiently in digital currency, focusing strictly on business-to-consumer (B2C) transactions, but neglecting business-to-business (B2B) distribution and the supply chain ecosystem.

CEO of Dash Core Group Ryan Taylor said:

“Alt Thirty Six is a tremendous asset for the Dash network, because they act as an extension of the network itself – building valuable packages of easy-to-use merchant and consumer services. They are also practical ‘problem-solvers’ that truly understand the legacy payment system’s pain points for specific retail segments. The platform they are building is adaptable to a wide range of business applications, and we believe Alt Thirty Six will constitute a great channel as we expand into new retail verticals. These are all low-margin businesses that could benefit tremendously from lower transaction costs and the ability to reach new customers.”

Alt Thirty Six will first tackle the cannabis industry, where many legally compliant dispensaries across the country will integrate the payments platform directly, or white label it.

“We have several integrated partnerships already, but one of the most exciting is our close partnership with CannTrade, California’s premier cannabis specific B2B marketplace & CRM, which will deliver the first truly comprehensive and expedient banking and digital payment solution for the fastest growing industry in the world. Through this partnership we will improve the chances of capturing dispensaries and expanding target users beyond dispensaries and patients to now include genetics companies, cultivators, manufacturers, edible companies, brands, and distribution companies. Being able to offer the 36 + Dash platform as a solution, not only to dispensaries but to the entire cannabis business community simultaneously, is a game changer,” Ramirez said.


About Richard Kastelein

Founder of industry publication Blockchain News, partner at ICO services collective CryptoAsset Design Group (helped raise over $200m+), director of education company Blockchain Partners (Oracle Partner) and ICO event organiser at leading industry event  CryptoFinancing (first ICO event in Europe) - Richard Kastelein is an award-winning publisher, innovation executive and entrepreneur. He sits on the advisory boards of half a dozen Blockchain startups and has written over 1200 articles on Blockchain technology and startups at Blockchain News and has also published pioneering articles on ICOs in Harvard Business Review and Venturebeat.

Kastelein has spoken (keynotes & panels) on Blockchain technology in Amsterdam, Antwerp, Barcelona, Beijing, Brussels, Bucharest, Dubai, Eindhoven, Gdansk, Groningen, the Hague, Helsinki, London, Manchester, Minsk, Nairobi, Nanchang, San Mateo, Shanghai,Tel Aviv and Venice. His network is global and extensive.

He is a Canadian (Dutch/Irish/English/Métis) whose writing career has ranged from the Canadian Native Press (Arctic) to the Caribbean & Europe. He's written occasionally for Harvard Business Review, Wired, Venturebeat, The Guardian and Virgin.com and his work and ideas have been translated into Dutch, Greek, Polish, German and French.

A journalist by trade, an entrepreneur and adventurer at heart, Kastelein's professional career has ranged from political publishing to TV technology, boatbuilding to judging startups, skippering yachts to marketing and more as he's travelled for nearly 30 years as a Canadian expatriate living around the world.

In his 20s, he sailed around the world on small yachts and wrote a series of travel articles called, "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Seas' travelling by hitching rides on yachts (1989) in major travel and yachting publications. He currently lives in Groningen, Netherlands where he's raising three teenage daughters with his wife and sailing partner, Wieke Beenen.
