---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "copay-dash-wallet.jpg"
title: "Copay Wallet going into closed Alpha Testing"
original-author: Joël Valenzuela 
original-link: https://www.dashforcenews.com/dash-copay-multisig-wallet-first-step-evolution-heads-alpha-testing/
---

The Dash version of the Copay wallet, the base for the Evolution wallet, has entered its alpha testings phase.

Copay is a multisignature (multisig) Bitcoin wallet designed by BitPay that allows users to set up joint accounts and put funds in control of multiple parties. The Dash Evolution team is working on a Dash version of this wallet, titled Dashpay, as a base for the Evolution upgrade, which will give a clean user-friendly experience and allow some advanced functions such as joint accounts, savings accounts, private cash accounts, recurring payments, and more.

Joshua Seigler, Evolution frontend developer for Dash Core, is pleased with the experience so far:

“Copay has a good reputation as a Bitcoin wallet, none of that solid feeling or great UX has been lost from what I’ve seen.”

The wallet will undergo rigorous testing to support a large user base

The wallet is undergoing rigorous alpha testing in order to be ready to easily support a large amount of users later this year and beyond. According to Chuck Williams, head of UI/UX development for Dash Core, the experience inherited from Copay has been stellar:

“Implementing the Copay wallet for the Dash network has been a tremendous learning experience for our team. While there is some obvious technical debt in the inherited codebase provided by Bitpay, the functionality provided for multiplatform HD and multisignature wallets is probably one of the most user friendly experiences available from an open source bitcoin wallet.”

Williams projects that by the end of the year, as many as 15,000 could be using the Dashpay wallet:

“Our next steps is to harden the interface with some user testing while we prepare production environments for public launch. Currently it looks like mid-to-late October, or possibly early November before we’re production ready. Based on current estimates, we’re preparing to onboard 10-15 thousand users on this release before end of Q4, 2017.”
Initial milestones for Evolution have begun to be hit

With the initial testing of the Dashpay wallet, the first stages of Evolution’s are starting to see the light. Over the course of the rest of the year, the alpha of Evolution will be released to partners for additional testing. According to the roadmap, Evolution will see a livenet release in February, with a mainnet public release in June. The Evolution upgrade will be a multi-stage, multi-year process to support millions of users around the world.
