---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "BitCart.jpg"
title: "Dash Teams Up With Irish Blockchain Startup BitCart"
---
Dash is the pesky leak in the faucet that keeps drinking in the bathroom of Bitcoin’s house.

It’s persistent, and demands to be heard. As the such, the alternative to Bitcoin has formed a union with Irish-based discount gift card platform BitCart to allow users access to significant online savings at Amazon, and soon, hotels.com.

BitCart offers nearly 20 percent discounts on Amazon for consumers using Dash on its platform. The integration comes on the heels of Dash’s impressive Q1 rise, where its total market cap soared from $77 million to $528 million USD.

VP of Business Development Daniel Diaz said, “One of the most important things we need to do to help cryptocurrency adoption grow is to give potential users a strong reason to overcome the technical hurdles and start using digital currencies everyday. Offering a 20% discount on Amazon purchases is a powerful incentive for new users to try Dash out, learn about it, and most importantly, start realizing its benefits.”

The integration of Dash on BitCart’s platform will be finished as of 6pm EDT today.
CEO of BitCart Graham de Barra said, “Dash is an obvious addition to our payment options due to its scalability. It is the superior cryptocurrency for payments over any other cryptocurrency. There is nothing more exciting for me than the decentralization of the global finance system, which is currently inefficient and riddled with fraud. Dash allows our merchant platform to completely eliminate the chance of chargebacks, and it opens up more options to anyone in the world.”

BitCart had its start back in 2015, and gives users a way to spend cryptocurrency on the world’s leading online retailer.
“This partnership marks Dash’s first direct integration to a service of this kind, granting the project more independence. Dash’s fast confirmations and cheap transactions ensure a superior user experience on BitCart using Dash because users don’t have to bridge through other networks and wait long times for confirmation.” Diaz said.

“Customers can be from anywhere in the world, but currently most users are predominantly from the USA and Asia. With Bitcoin falling to 66% of the total market share, and Dash recently climbing to the fifth most valuable cryptocurrency, I have no doubt that our customer-base will increase with this implementation,” de Barra concluded.

<http://paymentweek.com/2017-4-26-dash-teams-irish-blockchain-startup-bitcart/>
