---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "5a2e59c94b93a.jpeg"
title: "Dash is dashing away!"
original-author: Applancer
original-link: https://www.applancer.co/blog/dash-is-dashing-away
---

While the majority of the cryptocurrencies are still pasting their wounds after undergoing severe losses, [Dash currency](https://themerkle.com/dash-price-reaches-new-all-time-high-of-574/) price is running new all-time highs. It is amazing that this is the single currency making any kind of optimistic impact on the Bitcoin price rectification. With the Dash price quickly approaching approx US$730, things are getting incredibly exciting.

### An additional unparalleled high for dash price

The past week has been a tremendous roller coaster for Dash holders with fluctuations and losses. This admired altcoin saw its price rise from US$540 all the way to more than US$700 in the small time frame. Most of us expect that all altcoins together would be distressing from Bitcoin's constant woes, but this is no longer the situation at all. In fact, the [Dash price](https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/dash/#markets) has grown adjacent to both BTC plus USD, which in itself is rather inspiring, as at present no other cryptocurrency in the top ten has seen this much growth.


With the [Dash price](https://www.applancer.co/live-index-dash) growing by almost US$200 in a matter of the month, there is an understandable reason for apprehension as well. It is true that Dash has a very inadequate supply of coins which can acquire from the open market. A large quantity of coins is locked up in masternodes, which give valuable services to the Dash system. This means it doesn't take much efforts to shift the market in any path, and up till now, it seems the Dash price increase is far from its end.

### Make way for the Dash

Furthermore, with the [Dash price](https://www.applancer.co/live-index-dash) value has been able to avoid any key developments in the crypto-world so far, it will be watchful to see if things will stay so unbeaten. We may witness Dash suffer from bigger changes in contrast to other currencies; however, it is all a meager conjecture at this point in time. Despite several developments, Dash price has increased in contrast to USD to BTC over the past days.

This scenario seems pretty outstanding, but it is notable that all superior things have come to an end. At this point, Dash's trading volume is still pretty tough. With over US$600 million value of Dash changing hands in the past few hours, it is obvious people are more than eager to invest in this digital coin. Whether or not these people are buying Altcoins to make money or else to spread use of this altcoin is a question nobody can comprehend right now.

Once more, the similar applies to pretty much any additional cryptocurrency in subsistence. Evaluating all of the developments in the journey of the Dash value makes it obvious that there is a lot of impetus in support of this altcoin, even while it is just based on assumptions. Once the market turns unpleasant, an enormous retracement is not out of the question at all. Dash is one of the minority currencies which have prolifically decoupled itself from Bitcoin, but rest of its plans are an enduring development.

* * * * *
