---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "copayJune21st.jpg"
title: "Dash CoPay Release plan !"
original-author:  Bob
original-link: https://www.dash.org/forum/threads/dashcopay-release-plan.38915/#post-190461
---



The Dash Core Group team is pleased to announce that we are preparing to launch the DashCopay wallet application on iOS and Android.

High level features of this new wallet include:

-   Create and import personal wallets

-   Create and join shared wallets (multi-signature)

-   Send and receive payments via QR code or copy/paste address

-   Create address book

-   View transaction history

-   Invite friends via email, text or social

-   Set local currency

-   Set desired network fees to increase/decrease confirmation times

-   Touch ID for log in (iOS)\
We faced several challenges in the implementation of this project. However, we made a promise to the community to deliver DashCopay to support the need for multi-signature mobile wallets. The challenges included third-party vendor management as well as underlying architectural issues inherited from the reference Copay wallet. Despite the challenges and delay in delivery, we feel that this product will be of value to many members of the Dash community.

Because the Copay code was so challenging to adapt, we are planning a phased rollout to identify any remaining issues with the software. We will have a phased rollout to minimize risks and maximize our ability to find and resolve bugs. After each phase, we will evaluate results and determine whether we should move on to the next one.

The phases will be as follows:

1) Beta version for testnet (30-day test)\
2) Beta version for mainnet (30-day test)\
3) Production launch with gradual rollout by geographical area

If you would like to sign up to be a beta tester, please follow these steps:

iOS

1.  Send an email to <elizabeth.robuck@dash.org> with your preferred email address

2.  Look for an email from Testflight and follow the instructions\
Android

1.  Download the DashCopay public beta in the Google Play Store on June 22

We ask that you report issues and feedback on the Dash Forum's 'Copay Support' board: <https://www.dash.org/forum/topic/copay-support.139/>
