---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "bitrefill-dash.jpg"
title: "Dash Core Group Announces Glenn Austin As New Chief Financial Officer"
original-author: DANIEL
original-link: https://www.chipin.com/dash-core-group-announces-glenn-austin-as-new-chief-financial-officer/
---


The Dash Core Group, which leads development and maintenance of Dash, the top digital currency for payments, today announced that it has hired financial industry veteran Glenn Austin as its new Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Austin will be in charge of financial operations for Dash Core Group, including budgeting, planning, risk management, investor relations, and accounting for the team.

“My interest in the cryptocurrency space has spanned several years, and in that time I’ve found Dash to be one of the most promising projects in the space,” said Austin. “Dash’s unique decentralized governance and treasury model has positioned it to be a dominant force in the cryptocurrency space, and I fully believe within the next decade it will become the primary digital currency for payments at retailers globally.”

Austin possesses an A.B. in Economics from Harvard and an M.B.A. in Finance and Management from Columbia Business School. Austin has spent most of the past 20 years in the financial services industry, starting as an Associate at Citigroup before moving on to Morgan Stanley. After advancing to the role of Vice President at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, Austin took on a Director role at UBS. Most recently he held a number of senior leadership positions at Chain IQ, a consulting firm spun out of UBS.

The Dash network’s unique treasury system requires Dash Core Group – and all other entities serving the Dash network’s needs – to submit proposals to, and gain sufficient votes from, the network to continue receiving funding. Austin will manage the proposal requests from Dash Core Group, among other responsibilities.

“Glenn is a highly-skilled financial professional with well-rounded experience spanning strategy and operations, and after an extensive search we’re confident that he is the right person to enable Dash’s continued growth,” said Dash Core Group CEO Ryan Taylor. “His role will help the Dash Core Group optimize its growing operations and manage financial risks within the decentralized governance system that has set the Dash project apart. I’m looking forward to working with Glenn in the years ahead.”

Austin’s role as CFO for Dash Core Group is effective immediately.

About Dash

Dash is the leading e-commerce and payments-focused digital currency, and the rising alternative to bitcoin. With over 1000% year over year growth in both value and trading volume since 2015, Dash has been consistently ranked in the top ten digital currencies by market capitalization and only one of the few offering safe, decentralized financial solutions to real world problems. Dash offers a form of money that is portable, inexpensive, divisible, and fast. It can be spent easily and instantly online at merchants across the globe, at much lower fees than credit and debit cards. With over 50 members on the development team and a unique blockchain mining and treasury model, Dash is the only major self-funded, self-governed organization in the cryptocurrency industry. This allows for constant development and funding for the entire project so community members can upload and vote on proposals, and if they are approved, they are paid for directly from the blockchain. Dash plans to unveil their landmark product Dash Evolution, the industry’s first easy to use decentralized payments platform in 2018.


