---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "payzaMarch15th.jpg"
title: "Dash expands reach integrating with global e-wallet Payza"
original-author:  Cryptoninjas
original-link: https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2018/03/15/dash-expands-reach-integrating-with-global-e-wallet-payza/
---


Today, the Dash core team announced a new integration and partnership with Payza, a UK based online payment provider. Having recently added [multiple ways to support transactions in crypto](https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2017/06/23/payza-adds-list-popular-altcoins-e-wallet-funding-method/), Payza users will now have the ability to send and receive Dash to and from other Payza users, spend it at over 100,000 e-commerce retailers, and exchange Dash to 25 different fiat currencies or Bitcoin.

CEO of Dash Ryan Taylor said, "Payza is an exciting partnership for Dash because our respective missions are so well aligned. Payza is supporting underbanked populations in nearly 200 countries, and the Dash network's low-cost instant transactions are ideal attributes for meeting these customers' needs. Payza is also well regarded in the industry with literally millions of users and they've thus far refrained from integrating other coins across their platform. We are truly humbled to be selected as the first digital currency to integrate beyond Bitcoin, and we look forward to supporting Payza's growth going forward."

Payza is headquartered in the UK, but primarily serves Asia, Middle East, Europe and South America, with some of its major markets including Venezuela, Nepal, Pakistan, Brazil, Mexico, and Haiti. It was founded to provide an alternative method of payment and storage of currency for people who have difficulty accessing bank accounts and traditional financial institutions. Over the past several months, Payza had received significant customer demand for built-in Dash access, particularly for its low fees, and focus on helping underbanked communities.

Payza CEO Firoz Patel said, "There are several reasons that we chose Dash to be the second cryptocurrency integrated into our platform, after Bitcoin. Dash boasts low network fees and fast transactions, two features that users look for in a cryptocurrency. Dash also has a vibrant and active community, especially in the developing world, which appeals to us as a company that also focuses on empowering underbanked populations. Finally, Dash is user-friendly and has a roadmap in place to further improve usability."

Payza's Dash integration is made possible through leading blockchain web services and infrastructure provider, BlockCypher. [BlockCypher specializes in blockchain agnostic solutions](https://www.cryptoninjas.net/2017/08/23/dash-blockcypher-join-forces-blockchain-technology-grant-program/) and makes it easier for users and companies to interact with several cryptocurrencies through one solution.

"We are excited to see Payza integrate Dash so quickly using our web services and infrastructure," said Karen Hsu, Head of Growth at BlockCypher. "Payza leads the digital payments market in providing customers with the choice to use Dash and digital currencies, which have become the fastest and most economical way of making cross-border payments for people around the world."
