---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "04MarchETF.jpg"
title: "First Crypto ETF to Establish DASH Masternode, Distribute Rewards as Dividends to Token Holders"
original-author: FirstCryptoETF 
original-link: https://medium.com/@FirstCryptoETF/first-crypto-etf-to-establish-dash-masternode-distribute-rewards-as-dividends-to-token-holders-eb8ac0dd08fe
---


[First Crypto ETF](https://firstcryptoetf.com/), the world's first exchange-traded fund for cryptocurrencies, will establish a Dash masternode and distribute the rewards earned through the masternode to First Crypto ETF token holders.

The masternode system is unique to Dash coin. As the second tier of the Dash network, masternodes validate the blockchain and provide Dash users the ability to anonymize transactions. Masternodes are rewarded for their services with 45 percent of the mining fee generated by the creation of new blocks.

By establishing its own Dash masternode, First Crypto ETF will earn mining fees and redistribute these additional coins to the Strategy Index, which is First Crypto ETF's portfolio of 10 cryptocurrencies, including Dash. In this way, First Crypto ETF will regularly add new value to each token holder's portfolio.

"The rewards from the mining fees will be something like a dividend for token holders," says Peter Vrábel, CEO of First Crypto ETF. "The mining fees earned from the masternode are a great way to add additional value to the Strategy Index."

The creation of a masternode fits with First Crypto ETF's overall mission to make cryptocurrency more accessible to a wider audience. Now, First Crypto ETF's token holders can reap the benefits of a masternode without having to establish their own nodes.

About First Crypto ETF: [First Crypto ETF](https://firstcryptoetf.com/) is the world's first exchange-traded fund for cryptocurrencies. Each token offered by First Crypto ETF is actually a basket of 10 different cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, Ripple, Litecoin, Ethereum Classic, Lisk, Monero, Dash, and Zcash. Through its portfolio-based approach, First Crypto ETF makes cryptocurrency more accessible, and it makes the process of investing in cryptocurrency easier to manage.
