---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "fernandoJan17th.jpg"
title: "Congratulations Fernando Gutierrez - Dash Core Group, Chief Marketing Officer"
original-author: Ryan Taylor
original-link: https://www.dash.org/forum/threads/congratulations-fernando-gutierrez-dash-core-group-chief-marketing-officer.26864/#post-163982
---

I am pleased to announce that long time Dash Core Group contributor Fernando Gutierrez will be greatly expanding his responsibilities and time commitment on our team by accepting the position of Chief Marketing Officer.

@fernando has been active with the Dash project since early 2014. Throughout that time, he has managed countless projects, legal initiatives, business development opportunities, and has served as a board member providing overall guidance to the team, and in my opinion possesses one of the sharpest minds toward overall business management on the team.

Most recently, Fernando has taken the leading role on our marketing and branding efforts, including establishing our relationship with Ogilvy & Mather and managing the relationship and plans. He has also taken on ownership for management of our public relations firm Wachsman PR, and started planning our conference and event participation for 2018.

Fernando's team - which we expect to start expanding soon - will be responsible for expanding our PR and advertising activities, events planning and coordination (including both external and Dash-organized events), marketing content and strategy (including assets like trademarks, our brand, the dash.org website, etc), and coordination of community / external communication.

Join me in congratulating Fernando. I believe the Dash network is extremely lucky to be gaining Fernando's passion and capabilities, while maintaining the valuable continuity of knowledge and experience from all of his years of experience specific to Dash.

Background:

Fernando is a registered lawyer and economist. He had an almost decade-long career in sales and marketing in HP and Telefonica, with previous experience in strategy consulting. He was promoted multiple times and had early management experience, including projects across South America and Europe. He worked in B2B and B2C consumer market advertising, in departments that focused heavily on data analysis of each initiative. He then exchanged the corporate world for entrepreneurship and investing in real estate, both for himself and for several institutional investors.

He joined the Dash team in 2014. Back then, joining the team meant performing a crazy variety of tasks because there were few people or resources. That included promotion, business development, legal research and discussing new features that we now love. Even maintaining servers while googling how to do it was an ordinary event. Lately he has been more focused in general management of the team's growth from his board position. He has also coordinated some marketing projects and kept an eye on legal matters, including supporting the creation of our new legal structure.
