---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "C30FC4A4-5643-4ABB-A28C-363BC9C37FFF.jpeg"
title: "BITCOIN CLUB MALTA TO HOST DASH DELEGATION MEET-UP IN MAY"
original-author: MaltaChamber
original-link: https://www.maltachamber.org.mt/en/bitcoin-club-malta-to-host-dash-delegation-meet-up-in-may
---


A delegation of one of the leading cryptocurrencies, Dash, will be visiting Malta for the first time next week. Interested parties are invited to attend the Bitcoin Meet-up at 6pm on 3rd May, at Naar Restobar in Sliema to meet them in person.

Hosted by the Bitcoin Club Malta, this meet-up will bring together key people from within the aspiring Blockchain Island. Pioneers, experts, business leaders and interested individuals will have the opportunity to network and update themselves on sector news in a casual environment that promises to provide information on, and insight into, cryptocurrency and Blockchain technology. It is an exciting opportunity for anyone keen to get involved in the local crypto arena.

One of the highlights of the event will be a keynote speech by Jan Heinrich Meyer, a representative from the German branch of Dash. Jan will explain the organisational structure of Dash-DAO (a decentralised autonomous organisation) and its decentralised government system; this will show how Dash's marketing budget is generated, voted on and spent. “I look forward to answering important questions about scalability, payment speed and mining,” Mr Heinrich Meyer explains. “I will also offer insight into the Dash Embassy D-A-CH – a project dedicated to helping payment oriented cryptocurrency to attain mass adoption.”

Mr Heinrich Meyer’s talk will be followed by a Q&A session, while everyone present will be invited to install a Dash mobile wallet and every person that brings a friend who is completely new to crypto will receive a small amount of Dash as a gift. An after party will follow, with drinks and sets played by well-known local DJs.

To reserve your place at this event, please visit www.bitcoinclub.mt

For the meetup great partners where found with the Dash Embassy Germany, Moon Zebra, the Blockchain Malta Association, the Malta Blockchain Summit.

For more information on the event, please contact Leon Siegmund on +356 7930 5572 or email lee@bitcoinclub.mt. For more information visit <www.bitcoinclub.mt> or <www.facebook.com/bitcoinmalta>


