---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "pawnFeb01.jpg"
title: "Pawn Software Leader Bravo Pawn Systems Announces the Addition of Cryptocurrency"
original-author: PRWEB
original-link: http://www.prweb.com/releases/2018/01/prweb15147137.htm
---

With the recent explosion of cryptocurrency, Bravo Pawn Systems is excited to be an early adopter of the virtual currency, and the first pawn software to support this new asset class. Bravo customers who utilize the company’s point-of-sale software for their pawn business will soon be able to accept cryptocurrency for pawn transactions. “Cryptocurrency will be a standard asset in the near future,” says Founder Steve Mack.
Not only will customers at Bravo powered pawnshops be able to leverage cryptocurrencies to borrow on, they will also be able to purchase cryptocurrency on Buya.com, Bravo’s online marketplace that allows pawnshops to digitally sell their inventory outside the confines of their brick-and-mortar stores.
“Cryptocurrency is another asset pawnbrokers will become experts at. This, like all items that come across the counter, requires expert skill at determining authenticity,” adds Mack, stating that in addition to pawn staples like diamonds, tools, firearms, gold, and handbags, you’ll start to see a rise in cryptocurrency transactions and an increase in its asset value. Bravo currently supports 1,170 asset categories, each with its own qualitative meta process to accurately evaluate it. The Bravo POS system will accept all types of cryptocurrency including Bitcoin, Litecoin, NEM, Ethereum, Zcash, Dash, Monero, Ripple, Decred and others as they come to market.
Launched in 2009, cryptocurrency is a decentralized digital cash system. Bitcoin was the first to market but there are now over 1,100 types of cryptocurrencies and climbing.
As a leader in innovation for the pawn industry, Bravo is excited about the possibilities this new virtual currency brings with it. “We are proud to be the first pawn software in the world to support crypto payments, loans, and purchases. Bravo continues to revolutionize the pawn industry, giving our customers a competitive edge. It’s very exciting,” says CEO Tally Ray.
Bravo Pawn Systems and Buya.com will officially start accepting the cryptocurrencies in 2018.
###
About Bravo: 
Bravo Pawn Systems specializes in point-of-sale software for the pawn industry. Established in 1988, Bravo POS was designed by pawnbrokers for pawnbrokers. As one of the leading pawn software systems on the market, Bravo strives to enable pawnshops to grow their business by providing continually enhanced features and world-class customer service to help them compete with national big box stores. For more information, visit bravopawnsystems.com.
Media Contact: 
Millet Pezzi 
1-888-407-6287 ext.142 
millet(at)buya(dot)com
