---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "cantradeJune13.jpg"
title: "Alt Thirty Six Partners With CannTrade, Opening The Door To Cashless Digital Payments For The Cannabis Industry"
original-author: Cision
original-link: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alt-thirty-six-partners-with-canntrade-opening-the-door-to-cashless-digital-payments-for-the-cannabis-industry-300665259.html
---



TEMPE, Ariz., June 13, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Alt Thirty Six, a first-of-its-kind payment solution platform specifically designed to help the cannabis industry go digital, announced today an innovative partnership with cannabis wholesale platform CannTrade. The partnership signifies the official launch of access for all CannTrade clients, including 400+ cannabusinesses, to Alt Thirty Six's payment platform, which eliminates the need for cash in the cannabis industry by using blockchain technology and Dash, a decentralized digital currency, to facilitate the transfer of funds.

CannTrade is the first cannabis-specific B2B marketplace and CRM platform to offer a digital payment solution to cannabis businesses including cultivators, manufacturers, distributors and dispensaries. Facilitated by Alt Thirty Six's platform, CannTrade clients can make payments through secure blockchain technology that uses Dash digital currency as an alternative to cash -- a true game-changer for how cannabis businesses can transfer funds.

"We are thrilled to be opening up access to our platform through CannTrade, a major force in the cannabis industry," said Ken Ramirez, co-founder and CEO of Alt Thirty Six. "By providing a seamless, easy-to-adopt payment solution, our goal is to change the way cannabis businesses across the country operate and to ultimately take the industry fully cashless."

Alt Thirty Six's blockchain technology allows for immediate payment transactions that take less than one second to process, eliminating the risk typically associated with cryptocurrency transactions and market volatility.

"The cannabis industry has a significant cash problem, especially when it comes to the large, wholesale transactions that are commonly facilitated through our platform," said CannTrade President Adam Holub. "We are partnering with Alt Thirty Six to provide a much-needed alternative to cash, alleviating the insecurity and inconvenience that so many of our clients currently face. This partnership will revolutionize the way our clients approach payments, ......

Full Story: <https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alt-thirty-six-partners-with-canntrade-opening-the-door-to-cashless-digital-payments-for-the-cannabis-industry-300665259.html>
