---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "2018062820171587.jpg"
title: "Dash [DASH] and other cryptocurrencies may get more stability receiving new Hedge Fund’s investment"
original-author: Ashmita Dutta
original-link: https://bcfocus.com/news/dash-dash-and-other-cryptocurrencies-may-get-more-stability-receiving-new-hedge-funds-investment/17301/
---



[Dash [DASH]](https://bcfocus.com/tag/dash-dash/ "浏览关于"Dash [DASH]"的文章") with the progress of time is gradually becoming more stable than other cryptocurrencies due to its usability. A leading venture capital firm known as Andreesen Horowitz is presently "investing aggressively" in digital currencies. BCFocus has previously reported about the possibility of[ Dash [DASH]](https://bcfocus.com/news/dash-dash-monero-xmr-may-get-tough-competition-from-bitcoin-private-btcp-in-future/15754/) and Monero [XMR]receiving tough competition from Bitcoin Private [BTCP] in the future times.

See also: [Dash [DASH] gears up to launch iOS- Android based DashCopay wallet](https://bcfocus.com/news/dash-dash-gears-up-to-launch-ios-android-based-dashcopay-wallet/16080/)

In this period of investment, this venture capital firm has raised a funding amount of $300 million USD. The firm has a planning to make investment in tokens, virtual currencies and Bitcoin and Ethereum networks. The firm aims to make investments for a period of 10 years.

Chris Dixon, the firm's general partner narrated the manner in which they, "experienced ups and downs in the cryptocurrency market, and expect there will be many more." However, they acknowledge the "potential in the technology, and some of the downturns can be the best investments."

Chris thinks that digital tokens are currently in "one of those great times to invest." Additionally, he also mentioned about the fact they "believe [they] are still early in the crypto movement." Way back in 2013 Andreesen Horowitz with Coinbase exchange made its first investment in cryptocurrrencies.

Financial institutions have already been making investments in cryptocurrencies. However, hedge funds specifically for cryptocurrencies are rare. The investors first consider the returns created by these virtual currencies. Simultaneously, they look out for the long term beneficial points associated with economic and technological progress which cryptocurrencies tend to offer.

See also: [Dash [DASH] launches new system of money transfer in Zimbabwe](https://bcfocus.com/news/dash-dash-launches-new-system-of-money-transfer-in-zimbabwe/17176/)

The investors seek the assurance that the investment would generate good returns over a span time. Funding from financial institutions tend to influence the .......

Full Article:
<https://bcfocus.com/news/dash-dash-and-other-cryptocurrencies-may-get-more-stability-receiving-new-hedge-funds-investment/17301/>
