---
author: tungfa
layout: post
image: "FB-Banner-01.jpg"
title: "Neptune Dash to Launch MN Pooling Service for Dash Owners"
original-author: VALENTINA KIRILOVA
original-link: https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/08/27/1556980/0/en/Neptune-Dash-to-Launch-Pooling-Service-for-Dash-Owners.html
---



VANCOUVER, British Columbia, Aug. 27, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Neptune Dash Technologies Corp. (“Neptune Dash” or the “Company”) (TSX.V:DASH) (OTC:NPPTF) (FWB:1NW) today announced it will be launching a new service, Neptune Dash Pooling, which will allow participants to contribute and receive Dash currency to increase their Dash ownership, bringing a new level of convenience and increasing value to Dash ownership. The Company has begun accepting waitlist requests for Neptune Dash Pooling and intends to roll out the service to all interested participants as it becomes available. To join, sign up at http://www.neptunedash.com/pooling.

Neptune Dash is the first public company to offer a solution for pooling Dash currency.

Neptune Dash Pooling will benefit both Dash owners and the Company through this exciting additional revenue stream. Dash owners typically store their Dash in a wallet, dormant and not generating any interest. This new service is a way for Dash owners to have their Dash work for them in a highly secure and transparent public company.

The Neptune Dash Pooling service is leveraging the strong competencies the Company has created in building and operating masternodes and securing crypto assets. The Company’s cloud-based masternode software is a high performance and secure system, allowing efficiency and scalability for masternode management. The Company is extending this software system to pool Dash currency from different holders from around the world. The pool of Dash will create new masternodes that the Company will build and operate.

Dash owners will gain interest on the percentage ownership they own in masternodes. As owners hold their Dash in the pooling service, their interest will compound as their earned Dash is reinvested in the pooling service. The company.........>

Read Full Article:
